\chapter{Lists}

In this chapter, we present operators on \emph{lists}, whether
\emph{proper}, \emph{dotted}, or \emph{circular}.  

\Defun {cadr} {list}

This function returns the \emph{second} element of \textit{list}.  It
is equivalent to the composition of the function \texttt{car} and the
function \texttt{cdr}.  

It follows that if \textit{list} is \texttt{nil} or if \textit{list}
is a \texttt{cons} cell with \texttt{nil} in its \texttt{cdr} field,
then this function returns \texttt{nil}.  

If this function is given an \emph{atom} other than \texttt{nil}, or
if it is given a \texttt{cons} cell with an atom other than
\texttt{nil} in its \texttt{cdr} field, then the result depends on
whether the code is \emph{safe} or \emph{unsafe}.  If the code is
\emph{safe}, an error of type \texttt{type-error} is signaled.  If the
code is \emph{unsafe}, an error may or may not be signaled.  If an
error is not signaled, the consequences are undefined.

\Defun {second} {list}

This function is entirely equivalent to the function \texttt{cadr}. 

\Defun {caddr} {list}

This function returns the \emph{third} element of \textit{list}.  It
is equivalent to the composition of the function \texttt{car}, the
function \texttt{cdr}, and again the function \texttt{cdr}.

It follows that if \textit{list} is a \emph{proper list} with fewer
than three elements, this function returns \texttt{nil}.

If this function is given an \emph{atom} other than \texttt{nil} or a
\emph{dotted list} with fewer than three \texttt{cons} cells, then the
result depends on whether the code is \emph{safe} or \emph{unsafe}.
If the code is \emph{safe}, an error of type \texttt{type-error} is
signaled.  If the code is \emph{unsafe}, an error may or may not be
signaled.  If an error is not signaled, the consequences are
undefined.

\Defun {third} {list}

This function is entirely equivalent to the function \texttt{caddr}. 

\Defun {cadddr} {list}

This function returns the \emph{fourth} element of \textit{list}.  It
is equivalent to the composition of the function \texttt{car}, and
three times the function \texttt{cdr}.

It follows that if \textit{list} is a \emph{proper list} with fewer
than four elements, this function returns \texttt{nil}.

If this function is given an \emph{atom} other than \texttt{nil} or a
\emph{dotted list} with fewer than four \texttt{cons} cells, then the
result depends on whether the code is \emph{safe} or \emph{unsafe}.
If the code is \emph{safe}, an error of type \texttt{type-error} is
signaled.  If the code is \emph{unsafe}, an error may or may not be
signaled.  If an error is not signaled, the consequences are
undefined.

\Defun {fourth} {list}

This function is entirely equivalent to the function \texttt{cadddr}. 

\Defun {fifth} {list}

This function returns the \emph{fifth} element of \textit{list}.

If \textit{list} is a \emph{proper list} with fewer than five
elements, this function returns \texttt{nil}.

If this function is given an \emph{atom} other than \texttt{nil} or a
\emph{dotted list} with fewer than five \texttt{cons} cells, then the
result depends on whether the code is \emph{safe} or \emph{unsafe}.
If the code is \emph{safe}, an error of type \texttt{type-error} is
signaled.  If the code is \emph{unsafe}, an error may or may not be
signaled.  If an error is not signaled, the consequences are
undefined.

\Defun {sixth} {list}

This function returns the \emph{sixth} element of \textit{list}.

If \textit{list} is a \emph{proper list} with fewer than six
elements, this function returns \texttt{nil}.

If this function is given an \emph{atom} other than \texttt{nil} or a
\emph{dotted list} with fewer than six \texttt{cons} cells, then the
result depends on whether the code is \emph{safe} or \emph{unsafe}.
If the code is \emph{safe}, an error of type \texttt{type-error} is
signaled.  If the code is \emph{unsafe}, an error may or may not be
signaled.  If an error is not signaled, the consequences are
undefined.
